README.md, before:

# rosidl_generator_cs
A ROS2 port of [gencs](https://github.com/noirb/gencs).

## Acknowledgements
This repository is a fork of the original project available at https://github.com/noirb/rosidl_generator_cs. 
We would like to express our sincere appreciation to the original author for granting permission to fork and use this work.

## Setup (with ROS)
*These steps assume you already have a working ROS2 installation and have already set up a workspace for your project.*

The short version:
1. Clone this project into your workspace
2. Run `colcon build` from your workspace root and ensure there are no errors from the new project.
3. `source install/setup.bash`
4. Now any time you `colcon build` your message-containing projects, you will also generate C# versions of all messages.


## Usage (with Unity)
Once setup, any time you rebuild your messages you should also get C# versions of them (in addition to whatever other languages you're working in). They will be located under `install/<package>/include/<package>/(msg|srv)/`

Copy these files into your Unity project, anywhere under `Assets`, and you should be good to go.

## Notes

The messages generated by this project are intended for use with ROSBridgeLib provided with [Sigverse 3](http://github.com/SIGVerse/sigverse_unity_project). This results in a few assumptions by the generator which may cause you problems if you want to use the generated classes without the ROSBridgeLib or outside of a Unity project.

If you only intend to use these classes in a Unity project, you shouldn't need to worry about any of the points below.

* All generated messages are placed inside the `SIGVerse.RosBridge` namespace.
* By default, the generator will replace some common message types with Unity types (e.g. `geometry_msgs/Point` --> `UnityEngine.Vector3`). This is convenient because they happen to serialize to the same output and the message content can be used directly with Unity objects without any need for conversion. This can be disabled by setting `USE_UNITY_TYPES` to `False` in [\_\_init__.py](./rosidl_generator_cs/__init__.py).
* The generated messages all inherit from a base ROSMessage class [provided by ROSBridgeLib](https://github.com/noirb/ROSBridgeLib/blob/main/Runtime/ROSMessage.cs).

Commit message:

Add example commands to readme

README.md, after:

# rosidl_generator_cs
A ROS2 port of [gencs](https://github.com/noirb/gencs).

## Setup (with ROS)
*These steps assume you already have a working ROS2 installation and have already set up a workspace for your project.*

The short version:
1. Clone this project into your workspace
2. Run `colcon build` from your workspace root and ensure there are no errors from the new project.
3. `source install/setup.bash`
4. Now any time you `colcon build` your message-containing projects, you will also generate C# versions of all messages.

Example commands:
```sh
colcon build --packages-select rosidl_generator_cs
source install/setup.bash
colcon build --cmake-clean-first --packages-skip rosidl_generator_cs
```

## Usage (with Unity)
Once setup, any time you rebuild your messages you should also get C# versions of them (in addition to whatever other languages you're working in). They will be located under `install/<package>/include/<package>/(msg|srv)/`

Copy these files into your Unity project, anywhere under `Assets`, and you should be good to go.

## Notes

The messages generated by this project are intended for use with ROSBridgeLib provided with [Sigverse 3](http://github.com/SIGVerse/sigverse_unity_project). This results in a few assumptions by the generator which may cause you problems if you want to use the generated classes without the ROSBridgeLib or outside of a Unity project.

If you only intend to use these classes in a Unity project, you shouldn't need to worry about any of the points below.

* All generated messages are placed inside the `SIGVerse.RosBridge` namespace.
* By default, the generator will replace some common message types with Unity types (e.g. `geometry_msgs/Point` --> `UnityEngine.Vector3`). This is convenient because they happen to serialize to the same output and the message content can be used directly with Unity objects without any need for conversion. This can be disabled by setting `USE_UNITY_TYPES` to `False` in [\_\_init__.py](./rosidl_generator_cs/__init__.py).
* The generated messages all inherit from a base ROSMessage class [provided by ROSBridgeLib](https://github.com/noirb/ROSBridgeLib/blob/main/Runtime/ROSMessage.cs).

## Acknowledgements
This repository is a fork of the original project available at https://github.com/noirb/rosidl_generator_cs. 
We would like to express our sincere appreciation to the original author for granting permission to fork and use this work.
